# Introduction

* The collect component is where the services assemble data from many sources.
* The store component stores data in repositories.
* The process component is where services manipulate data into needed forms.
* The consume component is where data is presented in the required formats.

>  Now, let’s talk about where that data comes from. As you probably know, you can get data from a wide variety of sources. Human-generated data is data created directly by humans typing information into a system or application. It is the largest and best-known form of data. It includes emails, documents, spreadsheets, images, data stored in databases, and more. Computer-generated data is created by applications without direct human instruction. It often results from human-generated input being combined with additional information gathered by a system. For instance, I can fill out a form online and fill in my name, occupation, and address. From this human-generated data, the application can then search my occupation and learn the average income for my occupation in the ZIP code I listed. The application can correlate that with job openings and even send an email to me letting me know about these jobs. So, the average income and job openings are computer-generated data. There is another form of computer-generated data that has even less to do with humans. This data is generated by logging the actions of applications and the behavior of systems and network devices within a network. This data is often in the form of semistructured log files but can also be stored in binary format. These data structures are sometimes hard to analyze but provide great value for pattern matching and making correlations between events. This helps businesses make decisions faster, with better information.
